UNCLASSIFIED//

ROUTINE

R 081638Z NOV 18

FM CNO WASHINGTON DC

TO NAVADMIN

INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC

BT
UNCLAS

NAVADMIN 271/18

PASS TO OFFICE CODES:
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1//

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/NOV//

SUBJ/FY-20 NAVY ACTIVE DUTY AND RESERVE ENLISTED ADVANCEMENT SELECTION BOARDS 
FOR MASTER CHIEF AND SENIOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER//

REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/19SEP18//

REF/B/DOC/OPNAV/15NOV16//

REF/C/MSG/SECNAV WASHINGTON DC/052044ZMAR13//

REF/D/DOC/BUMED/1JUN18//

REF/E/DOC/COMNAVPERSCOM/14JUN18//

REF/F/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/192102ZNOV14//

REF/G/DOC/BUPERS/1MAY15//

NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16G, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED PERSONNEL 
OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE.  REF B IS OPNAVINST 1220.1E, CHANGING 
OR REMOVING NAVY ENLISTED CLASSIFICATION CODES FOR NUCLEAR PROPULSION PLANT 
PERSONNEL.  REF C IS ALNAV 015/13, PERSONAL SECURITY INVESTIGATION SUBMISSION 
REQUIREMENTS.
REF D IS NAVMED P-117, MANUAL OF THE MEDICAL DEPARTMENT.  REF E IS MILPERSMAN 
1220-040, SUBMARINE QUALIFICATIONS DESIGNATION FOR ENLISTED MEMBERS.  REF F 
IS NAVADMIN 266/14, UNITED STATES NAVY SENIOR ENLISTED ACADEMY.  REF G IS 
BUPERSINST 1610.10D, NAVY PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEM.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN provides guidance for eligibility, communication to 
the boards for the FY-20 Navy Active Duty and Reserve enlisted advancement 
selection boards for master chief and senior chief petty officer.  The 
Reserve Component (RC) board will consider personnel serving on active duty 
as full-time support (FTS) and Selected Reserve (SELRES), to include those 
serving on voluntary and involuntary recall and mobilization orders.  
Mobilized Individual Ready Reserve (IRR) personnel are considered under the 
SELRES requirements for advancement.

2.  Timeline
    a.  November 2018.  Commander, Navy Personnel Command
(COMNAVPERSCOM) for Boards Reserve Enlisted/Reserve Officer (PERS-
802) will compile and submit initial time-in-rate (TIR) eligibility list of 
candidates to Naval Education and Training Professional Development Center 
(NETPDC) (N321).
    b.  30 November 2018.  Examination Status Verification Reports
(ESVR) will be available at:  https://prod-neas.ncdc.navy.mil.
    c.  4 February 2019.  RC E-8/E-9 board candidates changing ratings must 
be in the new rating to be considered as a candidate in that rating.
    d.  11 February 2019.  Letter to the board (LTB) deadline for the RC E-
8/E-9 selection board.
    e.  1 March 2019.  Active Component (AC) E-9 board candidates changing 
ratings must be in the new rating to be considered as a candidate in that 
rating.
    f.  4 March 2019.  RC E-8/E-9 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval and be posted 
to the records of the candidate prior to this date.
    g.  11 March 2019.  LTB deadline for the AC E-9 selection board.
    h.  15 March 2019.  RC E-8/E-9 selection board scheduled to adjourn.
    i.  22 March 2019.  AC E-8 board candidates changing ratings must be in 
the new rating to be considered as a candidate in that rating.
    j.  1 April 2019.  AC E-9 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval and be posted 
to the records of the candidate prior to this date.
    k.  1 April 2019.  LTB deadline for the AC E-8 selection board.
    l.  12 April 2019.  AC E-9 selection board scheduled to adjourn.
    m.  22 April 2019.  AC E-8 selection board convenes.  All eligibility 
requirements, to include any waivers, must have final approval and be posted 
to the records of the candidate prior to this date.
    n.  10 May 2019.  AC E-8 selection board scheduled to adjourn.

3.  Eligibility Criteria.  Candidates must meet the eligibility requirements 
outlined in chapter 2 of reference (a) and this NAVADMIN prior to the 
scheduled board convening date.  All requirements must be reflected in the 
enlisted master file prior to the board convening.  Requirements achieved or 
posted to the record of the candidate after the scheduled board convening 
date will be considered late.  This will make a candidate ineligible for the 
regularly scheduled board or entitle a candidate to an enlisted special 
selection board.  The authoritative source to determine selection board 
eligibility is the profile sheet.  The AC/FTS/SELRES cycle is 241.  Because 
eligibility status can change without direct notification, candidates should 
verify their profile sheet on a continuous basis and commands must verify 
their ESVR weekly through the projected board adjourn date.  The profile 
sheet and ESVR are updated as changes are processed by PERS-802.
    a.  The candidate shares equal responsibility with the parent command to 
ensure:
        (1) The name of the candidate appears on the selection board 
eligibility list.
        (2) The candidate is listed in the correct competitive group.
        (3) The Official Military Personnel File (OMPF) field codes
30-38 and performance summary record (PSR) of the candidate are up- to-date.
    b.  If an eligible candidate is not listed on the selection board 
eligibility list, mail or e-mail a completed Advancement in Rate or Change in 
Rating worksheet (NETPDC 1430/3) along with a letter of transmittal to NETPDC 
(N321) and info PERS-802.
    c.  If candidates listed on the selection board eligibility list are 
ineligible or later become ineligible, submit a message to NETPDC (N321) and 
PERS-802 requesting the eligibility of the candidate be invalidated and 
provide explanation for invalidation.
In line with reference (a) paragraph 722, advancement recommendation 
withdrawal must be completed and documented prior to transmitting the 
message.
    d.  If candidates are validated in the wrong competitive category, submit 
a message notification to NETPDC (N321) and PERS-
802 detailing the discrepancy.
    e.  Sailors not selected to continue from a senior enlisted continuation 
board are ineligible for advancement.
    f.  Candidates who do not have a recommendation for advancement on their 
most recent chief evaluation will be invalidated.
Evaluations that restore a recommendation for advancement must be made 
available to PERS-802 prior to the board convening date.
    g.  In line with reference (a), the terminal eligibility date used to 
compute the TIR is 1 October 2019.  TIR date for E-8 candidates must be on or 
before 1 September 2016.  TIR date for E-9 candidates must be on or before 1 
July 2016.
    h.  High year tenure (HYT) date or approved HYT waiver for the current 
paygrade must be 1 July 2019 or later.  HYT waivers must be approved prior to 
the board convening.  Candidates at HYT for the next higher paygrade on 1 
July 2019 are ineligible for advancement, regardless of any approved HYT 
waiver.
    i.  Members who have submitted voluntary Fleet Reserve 
(FLTRES)/retirement requests to Navy Personnel Command (NPC) are not 
eligible.  Voluntary FLTRES requests are those not mandated by HYT.
Members with FLTRES requests due to HYT are eligible for advancement and 
selection board consideration provided the HYT date for the present paygrade 
is 1 July 2019 or later per reference (a).  An approved or pending voluntary 
FLTRES/retirement request must be successfully disapproved, canceled or 
modified to an involuntary date prior to the board convening to render a 
candidate selection board eligible.
    j.  Commissioning Programs.  Candidates who have been selected for Seaman 
to Admiral (STA-21) program, medical enlisted commissioning program, medical 
service corps in-service procurement or judge advocate general corps in-
service procurement programs remain eligible for advancement consideration.  
Selection to any other officer commissioning program renders candidates 
ineligible.
Commands are required to request those candidates be invalidated by PERS-802.
    k.  In line with reference (b), nuclear candidates who are assigned Navy 
enlisted classification (NEC) N59X/N89X upon transfer from a nuclear 
propulsion plant operator to a non-nuclear billet at sea or ashore or to duty 
under instruction including special college education programs are ineligible 
for advancement.  This includes nuclear candidates transferred to a STA-21 
program duty station.
    l.  Security clearance requirements.  Candidates in a rating requiring a 
security clearance must have a favorable investigation adjudication by the 
Department of Defense Central Adjudication Facility reflected properly in 
Joint Personnel Adjudication System
(JPAS) prior to board convening.  If the commanding officer (CO) of the 
candidate grants an interim clearance, JPAS must be updated prior to the 
board convening.  Refer to reference (c) for additional guidance.  Sailors 
who have a clearance must maintain that clearance eligibility.  Ratings 
requiring a security clearance are AC, AE, AG, AO, AT, AW, AWF, AWO, AWR, 
AWS, AWV, AZ, CTI, CTM, CTN, CTR, CTT, EOD, ET, FC, FCA, FT, GM, HT, IC, IS, 
IT, LN, MA, MC, MN, MT, ND, OS, QM, SB, SO, STG and YN, as well as all 
nuclear and submarine ratings.
    m.  Branch class (BRCL) and special program indicator (SPI) code.  SPI 
for BRCL 32 Sailors must be verified via the billet based distribution 
system.  BRCL 32 on active duty orders with a blank SPI code is invalid.  
Commands must correct the error via the Navy Standard Integrated Personnel 
System (NSIPS) or the Sailor may seek relief by petitioning the Board for 
Correction of Naval Records (BCNR).  Sailors whose SPI code is invalid as of 
the board convening date will be invalidated.
    n.  Competitive group specific eligibility requirements.
Candidates must meet special requirements (citizenship, medical,
etc.) for certain ratings as outlined in paragraph 203 of reference (a).  
Commands must verify and submit a message to NETPDC (N321) and
PERS-802 requesting those selection board eligible Sailors be invalidated who 
no longer meet the qualifications listed in reference (a) or below by the 
scheduled board convening date.
        (1) Air Traffic Controller personnel must possess a valid Federal 
Aviation Administration 7220-1 ATCS Certificate and meet requirements 
established in reference (d).
        (2) Cryptologic Technician Interpretive (CTI) personnel must achieve 
the minimum language qualification of L2/R2 on the most recent defense 
language proficiency test (DLPT) in their primary language, as assigned by 
their CO, within 12 months of the LTB deadline for E-8/E-9 selection boards.  
However, this eligibility window is extended to 24 months of the LTB deadline 
for any CTI who achieves the maximum language qualification of L3/R3 on the 
most recent DLPT in his or her primary language, as assigned by his or her 
CO.  Acceptable documentation of DLPT scores includes an evaluation with 
language scores or the official Navy DLPT letter from Navy Language, Regional 
Expertise and Culture Office (OPNAV
N13F) forwarded to the board via the LTB of the candidate.  Any CTI whose 
primary language DLPT has expired must possess a valid *Inability to Test* 
waiver from OPNAV N13F in order to be considered by the board.
        (3) Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) personnel must hold the Master 
EOD technician NEC (M04A) to be eligible for advancement to E-8 and E-9.
        (4) Active duty Navy Diver (ND) personnel must hold the First Class 
Diver NEC (M1DV) for group 2 or the Master Diver NEC
(MMDV) for group 1 to be eligible for advancement to E-8 and must hold the 
NEC MMDV to be eligible for advancement to E-9.
        (5) Special Warfare Boat Operators personnel must have the Patrol 
Officer (SWCC Master) qualification to be eligible for advancement to E-8 and 
E-9.
        (6) Nuclear trained personnel
            (a) Submarine Sailors in nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor 
NEC (N13S, N14S, N15S or N16S) and the nuclear qualified secondary NEC N32Z 
(Engineering Department Master Chief (EDMC)) to be eligible for advancement 
to E-8.  A NAVPERS 1221/6 requesting a secondary NEC of N32Z and copy of 
qualification card must be submitted to OPNAV N133 at bullnuke(at)navy.mil 
via the Force EDMC by 12 April 2019.  Additional contact information is 
available via http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/enlisted/community/nuclear/
Pages/NuclearEnlistedPrograms.aspx.
            (b) Surface Sailors in nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC 
(N23S, N24S, N25S or N26S) to be eligible for advancement to E-8.
            (c) Submarine Sailors in nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor 
NEC (N13S, N14S, N15S or N16S) to be eligible for advancement to E-9.  
Candidates must also hold the secondary NEC N32Z and have served or be 
currently serving as an EDMC of a submarine.  Acceptable documentation of 
EDMC service for review by the selection board includes a chief evaluation 
with EDMC in Block
29 or 41, a letter from the CO via the member providing dates of EDMC service 
or NSIPS documentation via the candidate.  Candidates without EDMC service 
documented in their OMPF must submit documentation with their LTB providing 
dates of EDMC service.
            (d) Surface Sailors in nuclear ratings must hold a supervisor NEC 
(N23S, N24S, N25S or N26S) to be eligible for advancement to E-9.  Candidates 
must also hold the secondary NEC N31Z (Reactor Department Master Chief 
(RDMC)) and must have served or be currently serving as a division leading 
chief petty officer
(DLCPO) of a nuclear division at sea (reactor mechanical, reactor electrical, 
reactor controls, reactor propulsion or reactor laboratories), reactor 
training division officer (RT DIVO) at sea or leading crew chief (LCC) of a 
prototype to be eligible for advancement to E-9.  Sailors who are billeted as 
RDMC in lieu of DLCPO are also eligible for advancement to E-9.  Acceptable 
documentation of DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC or RDMC service for review by the 
selection board includes a chief evaluation with DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC or RDMC 
in Block 29 or 41, a letter from the CO via the member to the board providing 
dates of DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC or RDMC service or NSIPS documentation via the 
member.  Candidates without DLCPO, RT DIVO, LCC or RDMC service documented in 
their OMPF must submit documentation with their LTB providing dates of DLCPO, 
RT DIVO, LCC or RDMC service.
        (7) Non-nuclear submarine Sailors must be designated as either SS, SU 
or SQ in line with reference (e) as of the board convening date to be 
eligible.  Candidates designated as SG or SP are not eligible for 
advancement.
    o.  While reference (f) (NAVADMIN 266/14) required personnel who were 
selected for senior chief petty officer in FY-17 to successfully graduate 
from a senior enlisted academy to be eligible for board consideration, 
increased throughput requirements made this unachievable without significant 
impact to talent management.
Therefore, this requirement is waived for those selected in FY-17.
Reference (f) will be reissued with revised guidance for senior enlisted 
academy requirements in future selection boards.

4.  Competitive Groups.  The below listed ratings are separated into 
competitive groups as applicable to the component of the candidate:
    a.  CTI (Active Duty E-8)
        Group 1 - Middle East and North Africa
        Group 2 - East and Far East Asia
        Group 3 - Latin and South America
        Group 4 - Eastern Europe
    b.  EMN, ETN and MMN (Active Duty E-8/E-9)
        Group 1 - Submarine
        Group 2 - Surface
    c.  MU (Active Duty E-8/E-9)
        Group 1 - Premier Band
        Group 2 - Fleet Band
    d.  NC (Active Duty and FTS E-8/E-9)
        Group 1 - Career Recruiter Force
        Group 2 - Fleet
    e.  ND (Active Duty E-8)
        Group 1 - Master Diver (MMDV)
        Group 2 - First Class Diver (M1DV)

5.  Record review and communication with the E-8/E-9 selection board.
    a.  Communication to the board must originate from the individual 
candidate and must be accompanied under the signed LTB of the candidate.
        (1) The LTB may address any information that the candidate considers 
important.  Candidates should not include items in their LTB that are already 
included in their OMPF or PSR unless the OMPF version is unreadable or the 
PSR is incorrect.  An LTB to only state that the OMPF and PSR of the 
candidate have been verified and is correct is not desired.  Any evaluation 
gaps should be resolved by either submitting the missing evaluations via an 
LTB or a statement in lieu of missing report per chapter 17 of reference (g).
        (2) LTBs must either be digitally signed using the military identity 
certificate of the candidate or have a hand-written signature of the 
candidate.  Unsigned LTBs will not be presented to the board.
        (3) Third party correspondence is any communication to the board that 
is not accompanied by the signed LTB of the candidate and will not be 
presented to the board.  Commands are not authorized to submit a message to 
NPC requesting information be presented to the board.
    b.  Information received that is not accompanied by a signed LTB or not 
received by the MyNavy Career Center (MNCC) by the deadline listed in 
paragraph 2, will not be presented to the board, regardless of any attempt to 
submit on time.  The time and date LTBs are received in the MNCC inbox 
(central time zone) is the time and date used for deadline verification.
    c.  All LTBs and each enclosure must contain the candidates full name and 
full social security number.  Candidates must verify that the correct board 
number is on their signed cover letter.  Board numbers are:
        (1) 205 for SELRES E-8/E-9
        (2) 206 for FTS E-8/E-9
        (3) 210 for AC E-9
        (4) 235 for AC E-8
    d.  The preferred method to submit an LTB is by encrypted e-mail to 
cscselboard(at)navy.mil.  This is still a valid e-mail address for MNCC.  E-
mailed LTBs must be encrypted to protect personally identifiable information.
    e.  Trouble with file encryption or certificates or any other 
communication errors that prevent the MNCC from reading a submission do not 
justify a late LTB.  To verify receipt of an LTB, go to 
https://npccontactcenter.ahf.nmci.navy.mil/OA_HTML/npc.html or call the MNCC.  
Although late or unsigned LTBs may be accepted by the MNCC, they will not be 
presented to the board and no feedback will be provided to the candidate.
    f.  If unable to e-mail, candidates may mail a LTB to the addresses 
below.  Mailed LTBs should be on plain white paper and paper clipped (no 
staples, binders, folders or tabs).
        (1) SELRES/Mobilized IRR E-8/E-9 Board:
            MyNavy Career Center (BUPERS-074)
            President
            FY-20 Reserve E-8/E-9 Selection Board #205
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
        (2) FTS E-8/E-9 Board:
            MyNavy Career Center (BUPERS-074)
            President
            FY-20 Reserve E-8/E-9 Selection Board #206
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
        (3) Active E-9 Board:
            MyNavy Career Center (BUPERS-074)
            President
            FY-20 Active E-9 Selection Board #210
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
        (4) Active E-8 Board:
            MyNavy Career Center (BUPERS-074)
            President
            FY-20 Active E-8 Selection Board #235
            5720 Integrity Drive
            Millington, TN 38055-6300
    g.  Certified or registered mail is not advised due to delays in 
handling.
    h.  Candidates may submit more than one LTB vice waiting until the 
deadline to submit one all-inclusive LTB.  Although multiple LTBs are 
authorized, candidates should not duplicate previously sent information.
    i.  The same LTB deadline applies to candidates who gain eligibility 
after the LTB deadline and before the convening date.  A candidate who is 
working to fix an eligibility issue and expects to be selection board 
eligible prior to the board convening date may submit an LTB, which must 
still be received prior to the deadline.

6.  Selection board results.  Official results will be provided online via 
BUPERS Online to authorized command representatives prior to the release of 
the official results via NAVADMIN.  Selectee profile sheets will be published 
by NETPDC within 30 days of both RC and AC selection board results being 
released via NAVADMIN.
Educational services officers who are registered users may access results 
through the Navy Enlisted Advancement System (NEAS) website (https://prod-
neas.ncdc.navy.mil).  Individual candidates may view profile sheets via a 
.mil domain computer at https://prod- 
neas.ncdc.navy.mil/NEASRpts/Individual.aspx.

7.  Additional information regarding this cycle will be posted at:
    a.  AC boards:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/activedutyenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx
    b.  RC boards:  http://www.public.navy.mil/bupers-
npc/boards/reserveenlisted/Pages/GeneralInformation.aspx

8.  Points of contact:
    a.  MNCC, (833) 330-6622 or e-mail at askmncc(at)navy.mil.  Do not submit 
LTBs to this e-mail.
    b.  Selection board eligibility PERS-802, (901) 874-4537/DSN 882 or e-
mail at npc_enlisted_selbd_elig(at)navy.mil.
    c.  NETPDC (N321), (850) 473-6148/DSN 753 or e-mail at 
sfly_N321_discrepanc(at)navy.mil.

9.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

10.  Released by Vice Admiral R. P. Burke, N1.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
UNCLASSIFIED//

